Administration & Permissions

Admin User Permissions
Every  Admin User that is invited to use and manage the HR Partner system has their own set of Permissions that can be customized based on what type of access they need to the system. This means that you can restrict access to certain Sections, Departments and Employee Modules based on what information that individual Admin User should or should not see.

Start by going to Setup > Users and this will bring you to the full list of Admin Users on the account. Click on Edit towards the right side of any Admin User to bring up the full list of Admin User Permissions, as shown below:



Outlining User Permissions
The bulk of the Admin User permissions are listed out and you can select or de-select options based on what areas of the system that you would like each Admin User to be able to access. If you as an Admin User are not able to access part of the system or if you are unable to make changes, it's very likely that your Company Owner would need to grant you access in the Admin User Permissions screen.

The Admin User Permissions are outlined in five different sections which will allow you to edit Permissions based on each section: General, Access, Tasks, Advanced and Info. Let's go through each section.



General
The General section of the Admin User Permissions settings outlines each general command that you can grant to each Admin User based on the Company's needs. Each command is outlined and you can check or uncheck boxes as they apply to each Admin User.



Under the Communication heading, these commands include major communication areas of the system: sending Email Templates to Employees and Applicants and sending SMS messages to Employees. If you de-select both of these items, an Admin User will not be able to communicate with an Employee using the system.

Under the Employee Portal heading, there is a command that allows the Admin User to be able to 'log in as Employee' and view the Employee's Portal as the Employee sees it. The orange button (shown below) that can be found on an Employee's Profile will disappear and the Admin User will not be able to access any Employee Portal but their own.



The Reminders command deals with the Reminders that are generated by the system and that are sent over to another fellow Admin User. If this box is not selected, then the Admin User will only be able to see Reminders that are specific to them.

Access
The Access tab will allow you to edit the Admin User's Permissions in relation to the Employee and the Employee's Profile page.

Modules Access refers to the Modules that an Admin User will be able to see in each Employee Profile. If any Module is not selected, then that Module will be completely missing from the Admin User's view of the Employee Profile. For example, if you were to un-check Renewable Documents, then another Admin User would not be able to see ANY Renewable Documents listing under Modules. The Admin User would also not be able to add or edit any Renewable Documents.

Department Access will restrict an Admin User to be able to see ONLY the Departments that are listed in the box. Any Employee that is in another Department will not show up at all for that Admin User.

Location Access will restrict an Admin User to be able to see ONLY the Locations that are listed in the box. Any Employee that is in another Location will not show up at all for that Admin User.

These permissions work together. Meaning you could restrict an Admin User to see only Employees in the Finance Department who are based in the London Office, for example. 



Tasks
The Tasks tab shows commands that are related to different sections of the system: Time Off/Leave, Recruitment, Timesheets, Checklists, Expenses, Custom Forms, News & Polls, Library and e-Signatures.

Each command will give the Admin User access to be able to approve items and assign things to Employees, but it will not grant access to configure the templates associated with that section. (For example, you can grant access so that the Admin User can Assign a Checklist, but they may not be able to Create a Checklist Template).



Advanced
The Advanced tab handles permissions for major areas of the system, including permissions for OTHER Admin Users that you add to the account. 

The second item that is outlined is called "Can edit system and company information in the system, including subscription plans". This line alone is incredibly important when setting up a new User because "editing system and company information" includes many of our Sections (e.g. Recruitment and Forms). If you are handling trouble with accessing an area of the system, please check this box first and see if that allows you access.

Info
The Info tab shows you an overview of information related to the Admin User: User Information, Recent Login Information and other helpful pieces about that Admin User's history related to their use of HR Partner.



Note: If you are an Admin User currently, but you do not see the "Configure" tab that is referenced in this article, it's very likely that your own Security Permissions are restricted so that you cannot make changes to the system. You may need to contact your Super Admin User or Company Owner on the account to release or change your restrictions to be able to make necessary changes.

Last updated on February 3, 2022

RELATED ARTICLES
Linking Admin User & Employee Accounts
https://help.hrpartner.io/article/119-linking-admin-user-and-employee-accounts